Okay.
So our test suite is in a really good spot right now, but I still want to add one more test for our
job filter is sidebar organizations component.
So I have the component open here on the left hand side and the test suite for it open on the right
hand side.
As a reminder, this is the actual collapsible collection of organizational checkboxes that the user
sees on the left hand sidebar.
So here we are, iterating over something called unique organizations.
That is a getter that returns a set of the unique organizations from our jobs.
And as iterating over each one, we are rendering a checkbox and input checkbox for each one.
And so in our current test right now, we are successfully testing that.
We are rendering those checkboxes for the filtering process.
However, there is still one bit of component logic that we are not testing so far in our test suite.
And that is when the user selects a checkbox.
We're going to run this select organization method right here, and that's defined down below and methods.
And what that method does is it commits a mutation right here.
Add selected organizations is the name of the mutation, also the name of the method that we configured
on this component using the map mutations, helper function.
And then to that mutation, we're passing this selected organization's local data array right here,
which of course will have all of the strings from the checkboxes that the user has selected.
Right.
So we are not yet testing the interaction of this component with the store as far as this mutation.
We have to write a test that captures two things.
Number one, that we are committing the correct mutation, which is add selected organizations.
And number two, that we are passing that mutation.
The right argument, which is an array of local data representing the checkbox organizations at the
user, has checked at that moment.
So what I want to do is write a test where I will render the component, have the user click on a given
checkbox and verify that we have invoked the correct method which is going to be commit.
That is the method on our view store that that mutation is going to run for us behind the scenes.
And I want to make sure that commit has been called with the correct mutation name, add selected organizations
and the correct argument, which will be an array of whatever organization I select.
All right.
So let's go ahead and in our file, what I'm going to do is copy the entire test I have up above, because
a lot of it is going to be very similar to what I'm about to write.
So I'm going to copy our first test and paste it down below.
The first thing I'm going to do, of course, is to change the test description.
So what I want to verify with this component is that it communicates that user has selected checkbox
for organization.
Again, the thing that it's communicating with is viewed through the form of mutation.
However, I want to avoid specific technical details in my test description if I can.
I just want to communicate that the component wants to communicate to something else whenever the user
selects a checkbox.
I don't want to be too coupled to my implementation, so we're still going to need a collection of getters
here, specifically unique organizations, because that's what our component is going to iterate over
to render checkboxes.
So in this case, we have two organizations we're going to render to checkboxes.
But the other thing that you may recall that is available on a view store is a commit method and that
is the method that Matt Mutations is going to automatically invoke for us behind the scenes passing
in a string with the mutation name.
So in order to represent that commit method, which Matt mutations is going to invoke for us when we
click on a checkbox in our test, I need to make sure that I mark out my commit method.
So what I'm going to do is define a concept here called commit and it's going to be a just function.
Why am I using a just function?
Because they just function can track how many times it's been invoked and with what arguments.
And that's exactly what I want to do here.
I want to click a checkbox and make sure that the component has invoked the commit method on my store
and passed in the mutation and passed in the array of organizations.
So right here I need to make sure that I configure it as an available method on my store.
And my store right now is simply being fed into my Mocs property here in my Mt. function in the configuration
object.
So this will be what the component will have available via the Vista dollar same store property.
So now in my component, if I were to access this that dollar sign stalker commit, I would have access
to this just function.
And that's exactly what Matt mutations will invoke behind the scenes.
Whatever the commit method happens to be.
Again, in the real world, the commit method will be the real method it talks to view.
In our test, the world commit is a mock function that is playing that role.
However, because it occupies that commit method slot on a store object, that's what map mutations
will commit.
So we're going to have a wrapper.
We're going to mark out our store, we're going to have our font awesome icon stubbed out.
That's good.
Then we still need to keep this logic for clickable area.
As a reminder, our entire component is a child of our accordion component.
It's actually slot content.
The accordion component is the one that enables that collapse ability functionality.
So we first need to.
And this organization's component.
We need to expand the collapse ability so that we see those two checkboxes.
So we need to make sure we find that area and click it.
And here after those two lines is where we're actually going to customize what we're looking for in
this test.
Previously, we were looking for all of the organizations to be present.
In this case, we have two now.
I just want to click on one of them.
So let's say I want to click on the Google one and then I want to verify that I'm going to invoke the
COMMIT method with ADD selected organizations and an array of Google.
So what I'm going to do here.
Isn't going to create a concept called Google Input.
And that's simply to just indicate that I'm trying to find the checkbox, the input for specifically
my Google organization.
There's going to be two checkboxes.
I want to find the Google one.
So I'm going to invoke the find method of my wrapper and I'm going to look for a data test attribute.
Which does not yet exist on my component, and I'm going to assume that it's going to be just the organization's
name.
So Google.
So my goal here is to assign each checkbox a unique data test identifier, eventually in my iteration.
So the first one will have Google and the second one will have Amazon.
And that data test actually allows us to find whichever one it is and then click it.
So in this case we can click it, but there's actually a helper method available to us in view or rather
the view test utils and that is called set checked.
So if the find method returns an input, in this case it does.
And that input is a checkbox on that.
We can call a method called set checked.
And what that is going to do is automatically emulate the checking of this checkbox right here, which
of course will react or force the change event, which will force the select organization method to
run.
That's going to run our logic and that's what we want to test.
So set checked is actually going to be an asynchronous operation.
It returns a promise.
So we need to make sure we await it so everything completes first and then we're going to wait for the
component to render and run all of its logic.
So once we check the Google checkbox, we at that point expect our commit method to have been invoked
by that point because at that point, select organizations should have been run, which means we ran
this a mutations method which we have defined right here, which in turn behind the scenes will run
the commit method on our store and then we'll pass it the right arguments.
So right here we're going to expect Commit, which is our Jess function up above.
We can check that it has been invoked and we can do that with to have been called.
And then to make it more specific, I don't just want to check that it's been invoked by Nat mutations.
I want to check that it's been invoked with the right arguments.
So I'm going to use to have been called width.
And to this we pass the arguments that we expect the mutation to have or in this case the commit method
to have been called with the first argument is going to be the name of the mutation.
So we expect that we're going to invoke add selected organizations.
And then finally, the second argument is going to be the argument we're passing to the mutation, and
that is going to be our array of organizations.
So if we just selected the Google checkbox, we should have a single item in this array and that will
be Google.
All right.
So let's run this and it's going to fail.
The reason it's going to fail is it's not able to set a check mark or click a checkbox because it's
not able to find anything in our template with this data test of Google.
So I'm going to scroll up and I'm going to add that data test to our input.
Remember, we're going to have two inputs because we're going to have two checkboxes, one for each
of our unique organizations, Google and Amazon.
So what I'm going to do is bind using the colon syntax and I'm going to bind it to data test.
Let's do it.
How about right here?
I'm going to bind it to data test because I want to provide a dynamic value.
And what I'm going to bind to data test is going to be the organization string that I'm currently iterating
over.
So let me put organization here.
So we're going to use the same string for our ID to dynamically bind to the idea attribute whatever
that string is, in this case, Google.
Google is going to be ready.
Google is going to be the value that we provide to our array to store.
And Google is also going to be the value for our data, this attribute.
Then on the second iteration, as we're moving over the string of Amazon in our tests, once again,
we're going to dynamically bind the ID attribute to the Amazon and bind the value actually to the Amazon
and then bind the data just actually to the Amazon.
And the reason we're doing this is now we have a unique data test on each of our two inputs, which
allows us to run this logic right here that finds only the Google one and clicks only that to verify
that our should have exactly one.
So I'm going to save this and you can see that everything is successfully working.
So we are expanding our accordion.
We are finding one of our two inputs, the one with the data test of Google because there's only going
to be one.
We are checking that input using set checked.
We're emulating the user, clicking on it and selecting it, which should automatically trigger a change
event which will run select organization.
The Select Organization method below will run an automatic mutation method called ADD Selected Organizations,
which we have available because we have mapped mutations used right here.
What this method is going to do is automatically run the commit method on our store.
This is what it's doing right here.
It's running this method and it's going to pass it first.
The name of the mutation is the first argument, which is add selected organizations and then afterwards
it's going to pass any arguments we give right here.
So we are passing an array right here of whatever the data is.
So that array at this juncture should be an array of Google.
I know it's a little bit confusing because there's things going on behind the scenes that were we have
to be aware of.
We have to know that commit is what's being called.
We have to know that commit is being called with the name and then the arguments here.
It's a little bit confusing because we're calling at select organizations and we're only passing in
one argument.
But remember, this is a method created for us by Nat mutations that is doing that extra junk underneath
the hood.
We could totally wire this up manually by doing things like this, that dollar sign store not commit
and doing this.
This is basically doing the exact same thing as what we're doing.
With not mutations, but this is what's running underneath the hood.
So that is what we're testing.
And we're the reason we're doing this approach is because it's a little bit cleaner too, right?
And utilizes the available functions in view.
So I'm going to remove that.
We're testing that, save that everything is still running.
So we are successfully testing that.
We are rendering our unique organizations and that the component is sending out the right message whenever
we click on a checkbox.
And that, I argue, is everything that this component is responsible for.
It doesn't really have much else to take care of.
So with that, I am pretty happy with this test suite and we can move on in the next lesson to refactoring
it a little bit.